>> Scott Moss: So the only thing you're
going to need to know at this point
is how, I mean,
cuz we're in graphical right now.
So they have this really
nice auto completed section
down here where we can add variables,
but in React, in the code,
how do we add the variables
cuz we don't have this?
So that's the only thing
you're gonna need to know.
I'm just gonna give you
a quick walkthrough.
So if you follow along and you still have
this, this is great because remember,
you can write your stuff in here and just
copy it in your code, and it just works.
If you ran into here and it worked, it's
probably going to work in your code too.
Because remember, what's happening in
this Apollo DevTools graphical client
is using the exact same client that
you configure it in your client file.
So whatever authentication,
whatever middleware, whatever anything you
have set up, it's probably gonna work
the exact same way that it does here, so I
always test myself in here first before I
put in my code, it's a really good habit.
So in order to use mutations in React,
you might notice there's a function
up here called Use Mutation.
This is also a hook.
Remember, you don't really
need to know much about hooks
in order to understand what's going on.
So the goal is to be able
to go to our app here,
click on New Pet,
which goes to this model that's very tiny.
Over here, you can select a dog or
a cat, and
if you hit that button, it'll create one.
Right now, it's not because I
don't have anything there, so
it only still have
the three pets that I had.
You need to get that to work.
Don't worry about the React stuff,
it's already hooked up.
You just got to make
the graph kill stuff work.
So in order to do that, you have
this use mutation function up top.
And the way you're going to do that is
you're going to declare a variable.
Actually, I'm not going to do it for
you, I'll show you the answers.
You almost trick me.
The usemutation function, basically, what
it does is it's going to take a query,
just like this one, just like we made
all pets using the graph geotag.
You're going to make another query
that's going to be mutation this time,
and it's going to look very similar
to this, if not exactly this.
And then useMutation,
its syntax is unlike useQuery.
So useMutation doesn't return an object,
it actually returns an array.
And the only difference with this
one is the first argument inside of
useMutation is actually gonna
be the mutation function, so
this is where you're going to
actually mutate something.
So I'll just write it out.
So actually, I'll call it like createPet,
you can call it whatever you want.
The second argument is gonna be
the same thing that useQuery has,
where you get an object back that
has a data loading and an error.
And then you can do useMutation like that,
and then you pass in your mutation,
whatever you made up here,
you're gonna make a mutation.
This createPet, or
whatever you call this first argument,
that's the actual function
that's gonna make the mutation.
When you call the useMutation, it's
not actually going to do the mutation.
Unlike useQuery, it will run your
query as soon as you call useQuerry,
useMutation doesn't run the mutation.
The mutation happens when
you execute this function.
Whatever your first argument is in
your array, when you execute that,
that is a function, when you execute that,
that's when the mutation is going to run.
So what you wanna do in your React app,
there's this onSubmit function
here that closes a model.
Before or after you close the model,
that's where you wanna
execute your mutation.
This this onSubmit gets happened when
you click that button on that model that
creates a pet.
So it's going to take an input.
This input is going to have a type and
a name for a pet.
It's an object with a type in a name.
So using that type in the name,
you need to use this function,
this mutation function here.
Like I said, it is a function.
And it takes an object, and on this object
exists a property called variables,
the same variables that we have down here.
See how we pass the variables down here,
this exact same way
with the same name that we created in
our mutation, newPet, newPet, newPet?
That's what the variables
property does here.
And we get the variables that
we want from this input.
This input object is an object with a type
and a name on it already guaranteed.
We just need to find a way to pass it
to our createPet mutation as variables.
>> Scott Moss: So once you have that,
you're pretty much good.
That's all you gotta do to do a mutation.
>> Scott Moss: Everybody follow me?
Okay, now, you're going to do that and
you're going to find out,
although it did work, it didn't work
the way you thought it was going to work.
You might not see your pet list update
with the new thing that you created,
that's intentional.
You won't see it update in this use case,
and when we get back, you'll figure out
why that didn't happen, although you
probably thought it would, but it didn't.
But as long as your mutation works,
usually fine.
Other thing to take note of,
you still have to handle your loading and
your error.
So remember to handle that,
it should be easy to just come in here and
just be like, or this thing is loading.
And don't do what I just did here,
which is confuse these and
override these variables here,
I put data loading and error.
So Javascripting already
have data loading error.
Now, I'm declaring them again,
so that's not gonna work.
So you probably just wanna just
maybe call this like newPet object.
And then you can like, newPet.data,
newPet.loading, newPet.error,
something like that.
Or just, if you're feeling like writing
a lot of variable name changes you can
just come in here and
call this something else, like that.
If you fancy that, so it's a lot, but
you can do that too, up to you, but
just don't give them the same
name because it won't work.
Let's go to this, put pet on my newPet.
There we go.
Cool, everybody understand
what they're doing.
So when you do that the result should
be exactly the same as what I did here.
There should be a mutation
that returns the data, and
if you were to go look in
the database in db.json,
you would actually see it pop
up just like this one did.